Indian Evidence Act - Key Sections

Section 3 - Definition of "evidence"
"Evidence" includes all documents produced for the inspection of the Court, and
all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made before it by
witnesses, in the manner provided by law.

Section 5 - Relevance of facts which are the occasion, cause, or effect of
relevant facts
Facts which are the occasion, cause, or effect of relevant facts, or which
afford an opportunity for the commission of a relevant fact, shall be relevant.

Section 8 - Motive, preparation, and previous or subsequent conduct
Any fact which shows or constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in
issue or relevant fact, or which constitutes the conduct of any person whose
conduct is relevant, shall be relevant.

Section 15 - Facts relevant when there is series of similar transactions
When there is a series of similar transactions involving the same parties,
all such transactions are relevant.

Section 17 - Statements made by parties to suit
The facts, when relevant, which constitute the statement of any party to the
suit, or of any agent to any party to the suit, regarding any matter in
dispute in the suit, are relevant.

Section 32 - Statements made by persons who cannot be called as witnesses
Statements made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the
circumstances of the transaction which produced his death, are relevant when
the question is as to the cause of his death.

Section 45 - Opinions of experts as to the points of law
When the question is one of foreign law, or of science, or of art, or of
identity of handwriting or finger prints, the opinions upon such points of
experts are relevant.

Section 45A - Opinion of electronic forensic expert
In matters involving electronic evidence, the opinion of an expert in computer
science or digital forensics is relevant.

Section 65B - Admissibility of electronic records
Any information contained in an electronic record which is printed on a paper,
or stored, recorded or copied in any machine-readable form for the purposes of
proof of such contents, is deemed to be a document and is admissible without
proof or production of the original.

Section 112 - Presumption as to legitimacy of birth
The fact that any person was born during the continuance of a valid marriage
between his mother and any man, or within two hundred days after the dissolution
of the marriage, is a relevant fact.

Section 113 - Presumption as to dowry death
If the woman married after 19th May 1984, and her death is caused by any
burns or bodily injury, or occurs under other abnormal circumstances within
seven years of her marriage, the Court shall presume that her death was
caused by her husband or his relatives.

Section 114 - Presumptions as to certain facts
The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to
have happened, regard being to the common course of natural events, human
conduct and public and private business relations.
