Indian Constitution - Key Articles

Article 14 - Equality before law
The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection
of the laws within the territory of India.

Article 15 - Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex
or place of birth
(1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion,
race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them.

(2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth
or any of them, be subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition on
account of any of them in accessing public places.

Article 16 - Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment
(1) All citizens shall be equally eligible for public employment.

(2) No citizen shall, on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, descent, place
of birth, residence or any of them, be ineligible for, or discriminated against
in respect of, any employment or office under the State.

Article 19 - Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.
(1) All citizens shall have the right to freedom of speech and expression
(2) This right shall include freedom to express opinions, receive and impart information
(3) Reasonable restrictions may be imposed in interests of sovereignty, security,
public order, decency or morality

Article 20 - Protection in respect of conviction for offences
(1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of law in force
(2) No person shall be prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once
(3) No person accused of any offence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself

Article 21 - Protection of life and personal liberty
No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to
procedure established by law.

Article 21A - Right to Education
The State shall provide free and compulsory education to all children of the age
of six to fourteen years in such manner as the State may, by law, determine.

Article 32 - Remedies for enforcement of rights conferred by this Part
The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement
of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed.

Article 142 - Enforcement of decrees and orders of Supreme Court
The Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make
such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending
before it.
