THE SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION AND REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013 (POSH ACT)
(Act No. 14 of 2013)

Section 4. Constitution of Internal Complaints Committee (ICC).
(1) Every employer of a workplace shall, by an order in writing, constitute a Committee to be known as the "Internal Complaints Committee":
Provided that where the offices or administrative units of the workplace are located at different places or divisional or sub-divisional level, the Internal Committee shall be constituted at all administrative units or offices.
(2) The Internal Committee shall consist of the following members to be nominated by the employer:
(a) a Presiding Officer who shall be a woman employed at a senior level at workplace from amongst the employees;
(b) not less than two Members from amongst employees preferably committed to the cause of women or who have had experience in social work or have legal knowledge;
(c) one member from amongst non-governmental organizations or associations committed to the cause of women;
Provided that at least one-half of the total Members so nominated shall be women.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012 (POCSO ACT)
(Act No. 32 of 2012)

Section 3 & 4. Penetrative sexual assault and punishment.
Punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than ten years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine. In aggravated cases (Section 6), imprisonment for life or death penalty.

THE PROTECTION OF WOMEN FROM DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ACT, 2005 (PWDVA)
(Act No. 43 of 2005)

Section 12. Application to Magistrate.
An aggrieved person or a Protection Officer or any other person on behalf of the aggrieved person may present an application to the Magistrate seeking one or more reliefs under this Act.
Reliefs available:
- Section 18: Protection Orders (restraining domestic violence, entering place of employment).
- Section 19: Residence Orders (restraining dispossession from shared household).
- Section 20: Monetary Relief (medical expenses, loss of earnings, maintenance).
- Section 21: Custody Orders (temporary custody of children).
- Section 22: Compensation Orders (for injuries, mental torture and emotional distress).

THE HINDU MARRIAGE ACT, 1955
(Act No. 25 of 1955)

Section 13. Grounds for Divorce.
(1) Any marriage solemnized may be dissolved by a decree of divorce on a petition presented by either the husband or the wife on the ground that the other party—
(i) has, after the solemnization of the marriage, had voluntary sexual intercourse with any person other than his or her spouse; or
(ia) has, after the solemnization of the marriage, treated the petitioner with cruelty; or
(ib) has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of not less than two years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition; or
(ii) has ceased to be a Hindu by conversion to another religion; or
(iii) has been incurably of unsound mind, or has been suffering continuously or intermittently from mental disorder; or
Section 13B. Divorce by mutual consent (motion after six months).

THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2000
(Act No. 21 of 2000)

Section 66C. Punishment for identity theft.
Whoever, fraudulently or dishonestly make use of the electronic signature, password or any other unique identification feature of any other person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to rupees one lakh.

Section 66D. Punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource.
Imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and fine which may extend to one lakh rupees.

THE MOTOR VEHICLES ACT, 1988
(Act No. 59 of 1988)

Section 185. Driving by a drunken person or by a person under the influence of drugs.
Whoever, while driving, or attempting to drive, a motor vehicle—
(a) has, in his blood, alcohol exceeding 30 mg. per 100 ml. of blood detected in a test by a breath analyser;
shall be punishable for the first offence with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with a fine of ten thousand rupees, or with both; and for a second or subsequent offence with imprisonment up to two years, or fine of fifteen thousand rupees, or with both.
