THE BHARATIYA NAGARIK SURAKSHA SANHITA, 2023
(Act No. 46 of 2023)

CHAPTER V: ARREST OF PERSONS

Section 35. When police may arrest without warrant.
(1) Any police officer may without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person—
(a) who commits, in the presence of a police officer, a cognizable offence;
(b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years whether with or without fine, if the conditions specified in clauses (i) to (v) are satisfied.

Section 47. Person arrested to be informed of grounds of arrest and of right to bail.
(1) Every police officer or other person arresting any person without warrant shall forthwith communicate to him full particulars of the offence for which he is arrested or other grounds for such arrest.
(2) Where a police officer arrests without warrant any person other than a person accused of a non-bailable offence, he shall inform the person arrested that he is entitled to be released on bail and that he may arrange for sureties on his behalf.

Section 58. Person arrested not to be detained more than twenty-four hours.
No police officer shall detain in custody a person arrested without warrant for a longer period than under all the circumstances of the case is reasonable, and such period shall not, in the absence of a special order of a Magistrate under section 187, exceed twenty-four hours exclusive of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate's Court.

CHAPTER XII: INFORMATION TO THE POLICE AND THEIR POWERS TO INVESTIGATE

Section 173. Information in cognizable cases (Zero FIR and Regular FIR).
(1) Every information relating to the commission of a cognizable offence, if given orally to an officer in charge of a police station, shall be reduced to writing by him or under his direction, and be read over to the informant; and every such information, whether given in writing or reduced to writing as aforesaid, shall be signed by the person giving it, and the substance thereof shall be entered in a book to be kept by such officer in such form as the State Government may prescribe in this behalf:
Provided that if the information is given by the woman against whom an offence under section 64, section 65, section 66, section 67, section 68, section 69, section 70, section 71, section 74, section 75, section 76, section 77, section 78 or section 79 of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 is alleged to have been committed or attempted, then such information shall be recorded, by a woman police officer or any woman officer:
Provided further that such information may be given electronically (e-FIR), and the applicant shall sign the copy within three days.
Provided also that information relating to the commission of a cognizable offence may be registered irrespective of the territorial jurisdiction of the police station (Zero FIR), and transferred to the jurisdictional police station within twenty-four hours.

Section 187. Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty-four hours (Remand).
(1) Whenever any person is arrested and detained in custody, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of twenty-four hours fixed by section 58, the officer in charge of the police station shall transmit to the nearest Magistrate a copy of the entries in the diary, and forward the accused to such Magistrate.
(2) The Magistrate may authorize the detention of the accused person in custody for a term not exceeding fifteen days on the whole, or in parts, at any time during the initial forty or sixty days out of the total detention period of sixty days or ninety days.

CHAPTER XXXV: PROVISIONS AS TO BAIL AND BONDS

Section 480. When bail may be taken in case of non-bailable offence.
(1) When any person accused of, or suspected of, the commission of any non-bailable offence is arrested or detained without warrant by an officer in charge of a police station or appears or is brought before a Court other than the High Court or Court of Session, he may be released on bail, but he shall not be so released if there appear reasonable grounds for believing that he has been guilty of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life.

Section 482. Direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest (Anticipatory Bail).
(1) Where any person has reason to believe that he may be arrested on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence, he may apply to the High Court or the Court of Session for a direction under this section that in the event of such arrest he shall be released on bail; and that Court may, after taking into consideration the nature and gravity of the accusation, the antecedents of the applicant, and the possibility of the applicant fleeing from justice, either reject the application or issue an interim order for the grant of anticipatory bail.

CHAPTER X: ORDER FOR MAINTENANCE OF WIVES, CHILDREN AND PARENTS

Section 144. Order for maintenance of wives, children and parents.
(1) If any person having sufficient means neglects or refuses to maintain—
(a) his wife, unable to maintain herself, or
(b) his legitimate or illegitimate minor child, whether married or not, unable to maintain itself, or
(c) his father or mother, unable to maintain himself or herself,
a Magistrate of the first class may, upon proof of such neglect or refusal, order such person to make a monthly allowance for the maintenance of his wife or such child, father or mother, at such monthly rate as such Magistrate thinks fit and to pay the same to such person as the Magistrate may from time to time direct.
